# Data Visualization
During the minor i have done a lot of Data visualization to understand the dataset of my project (Wheels). In this section i will explain what i have done with Data Visualization and what i have learned.

## Detecting patterns in Data
I was part of the wheels project group in the minor. Before we could start with coding we needed to understand the data. The data of the project was sensordata of three IMU sensors on a wheelchair. To understand this data i have written a visualization code that will visualize all IMU sensors for wheelchair basketball action in the dataset like a fast defence, see [Detecting Patterns](Timestamp_fast_defence.pdf). This visualization code helped me understand the importance of visualization/understanding your data before you can train a model. Through the visualization the best features for the model can be choosen, like the wheelspeed of the wheelchair and the frame rotation speed.

## Balancing Data 
After visualizing the dataset, the features that we found most sutable where used for the training of a K-Nearest Neighbor model to detect sprinting behavior. When fitting the data to the model i ran into a problem. The model didn't have great results because the dataset wasn't balanced. The balance of the dataset was visualized to see how bad it was see: [Detecting Patterns](Data_Balance.pdf). The dataset was more inbalanced then i thought, with this information i balanced the dataset. After balancing the dataset the results of the model improved.

## Checking False Negatives
When i got the K-Nearest Neighbor model working there were many false positives. This was because in the dataset of the the wheels project there weren't any good ground truths. This was a problem when i wanted to check the precision of a model, because i didn't know if a false negative was really a false negative. To check if a false negative wasn't a positive, all false negatives of a model where visualized with the following code: [Check False Positives](Check_False_Negatives.pdf). This showed that many of the false negatives of the model were actually true positives. This showed that the dataset of the wheels project needed to be improved, through data collection and preparation.
